add fleet UI testing docs (#7687)
fleetdm/fleet: docs/Contributing/Fleet-UI-Testing.md

# Frontend Testing Strategy & Plan

This document contains the testing strategy and plan for the frontend codebase. The testing
strategy is a high level overview of the **Who**, **What**, **When** and **Why** when it comes to testing.
The testing plan primarily outlines the **How** of testing and covers the different practices and
toolings used in testing.

> 

Reviewer: Include:

For instructions on using our testings tools, check out [/docs/Contributing/Testing-and-local-development.md](./Testing-and-local-development.md)

**Table Of Contents**

- [Testing Strategy](#testing-strategy)
  - [Testing Philosophy](#testing-philosophy)
  - [Who Tests](#who-tests)
  - [What We Test](#what-we-test)
    - [Shared Utilities](#shared-utilities)
    - [UI Building Blocks](#ui-building-blocks-resusable-components-and-hooks)
    - [App Widgets](#app-widgets)
    - [User Journyes](#user-journeys)
- [Testing Plan](#testing-plan)
  - [Types of Test](#types-of-tests)
    - [Testing Cheat Sheet](#testing-cheat-sheet)
    - [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
    - [Static Analysis](#static-analysis)
    - [Unit Testing](#unit-testing)
      - [Shared Utilities Testing](#shared-utilities-testing)
      - [UI Building Block Testing](#ui-building-block-testing)
      - [Reusable Hook Testing](#reusable-hooks-testing)
    - [Integration Testing](#integration-testing)
      - [App Widgets Testing](#app-widget-testing)
    - [E2E Testing](#e2e-testing)
  - [Tooling](#tooling)
    - [Eslint and Typescript](#eslint-and-typescript)
    - [Jest](#jest)
    - [Testing-Library](#testing-library)
    - [Cypress](#cypress)

>   - [More Specific Examples](#more-sepcific-exampels)

Reviewer: *more-specific-examples

- Gives higher confidence that the software behaves as intended in a real world scenario

### Who Tests

The **developer** is responsible for writing and maintaining tests as part of their work. They can get
help from QA when trying to decide what tests are sufficient for the feature.

### What We Test

We break down our application into different type of systems that we can test in ways that best fit
their use cases.

#### Shared Utilities

Shared utilities are generally simple JS functions used throught the app. This includes code like
utils in `utilites/url` and `utilities/string`.

#### UI Building Blocks (resusable components and hooks)

UI Building blocks is code that is reusable and primarialy props or argument driven. These include
components in the `components` directory like `Radio`, `FlashMessage`, and `Button` or reusable
hooks like `useDeepEffect`.

#### App Widgets

App widgets are larger chunks of the application that are more more specific (therefore not
reused) and are made up the UI building blocks. They tend to have more context and dependencies
within them and therefore are tested differently than the

> building blocks. Examples include forms like `LoginForm`, and `ResetPasswordForm` or even some

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
building blocks. Examples include forms like `LoginForm` and `ResetPasswordForm` or even some
```

simpler pages including `Registration Page` or `LoginPage`

> #### User Journeys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### User journeys
```

> User Journeys are the flows users take through the application to accomplish their goal. These are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
User journeys are the flows users take through the application to accomplish their goal. These are
```

typically the widest and can include navigating through multiple pages or working with multiple app
widgets on a page. This would include things like **Creating a new user or team** or **filtering
hosts by software vulnerabilities or set policies**.

---

> ## Testing Plan

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Testing plan
```

This section answers how we are testing our code. We cover tools and practices to writing tests. We

> like to test the software at different layers (unit, integration, e2e) all of which have their

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
like to test the software at different layers (unit, integration, e2e), all of which have their
```

own usefulness and testing practices.

> NOTE: Architecture plays a huge role in testing practices and tools. In our current landscape

> (__as of 31/08/2022__) we do not have the best seperation of concerns between our systems. As a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(__as of 31/08/2022__), we do not have the best separation of concerns between our systems. As a
```

result, the most reliable way to test our software is as a whole with e2e tests. While this is ok

> at some level, we still are missing a large chunk of important testing that would be better written

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
at some level, we are still missing a large chunk of important testing that would be better written
```

> and maintained at the integration/unit level. We'd like to utilise seperation of concerns more

Reviewer: *separation

between our systems as this will allow us to test more in the integration and unit layers which are
quicker to run and generally easier to work with.

### Types of Tests

We use a variety of testing to ensure that our software is working as intended. This includes:

> - End-to-end (e2e)

Reviewer: E2E

| User Journeys | e2e w/cypress | end users | filtering a host by software, creating a team as admin | Full business flows. No/minimal mocking of systems, except for common error states from network. |
| N/A | Manual | N/A | // TODO | Manual testing can be used for all types of code. Examples would be for one offs or states that would require extreamly difficult testing setups. |

#### Manual Testing

There will always be a space for manual testing and we utilise it for testing states that do not
occur very often in the application or are not worth the effort to set up to test for an  unlikely edge case.

#### Static Analysis

This includes typing and linting to quickly ensure proper typings of data flowing through the application and that we are following coding conventions and styling rules. This give us a first of defense against writing buggy code.

#### Unit Testing

> We unit test smaller reusable components that have no/few  dependencies within them. These

Reviewer: RW:
"little to no" instead of no/few

components are primarily parametric based and require no or minimal mocking to be tested

> effectively. They tend to be small building blocks of our application (e.g. reusable UI components,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
effectively. They tend to be small building blocks of our application (e.g., reusable UI components,
```

> common utilities, reusable hooks. The end user in this case tends to be other developers so we want

Reviewer: End paranthesis missing

Reviewer: RW:
"With unit testing, the end user tends to be other developers so we ensure these components work as expected when used as building blocks."

to ensure these components work as expected when used as building blocks.

##### Shared Utilities Testing

> We can test these purely with jest and dont have to worry about rendering components with

Reviewer: Capitalize "Jest" throughout this document

> We can test these purely with jest and dont have to worry about rendering components with

Reviewer: Maybe replace "these" with "utility functions". Because we want our docs to be clear, let's avoid pronouns in the first sentence of each section.

> react-testing-library. Only jest is needed with minimal mocking.

Reviewer: *React Testing Library

```tsx
import React from "react";
import { noop } from "lodash";
import { render, screen } from "@testing-library/react";
import userEvent from "@testing-library/user-event";

import Radio from "./Radio";

describe("Radio - component", () => {
  it("renders the radio label text from the label prop", () => {
    render(
      <Radio
        checked
        label={"Radio Label"}
        value={"radioValue"}
        id={"test-radio"}
        onChange={noop}
      />
    );

    const labelText = screen.getByText("Radio Label");
    expect(labelText).toBeInTheDocument();
  });

  it("passes the radio input value when checked", async () => {
    const user = userEvent.setup();
    const changeHandlerSpy = jest.fn();

    render(
      <Radio
        label={"Radio Label"}
        value={"radioValue"}
        id={"test-radio"}
        onChange={changeHandlerSpy}
      />
    );

    const radio = screen.getByRole("radio", { name: "Radio Label" });
    await user.click(radio);

    expect(changeHandlerSpy).toHaveBeenCalled();
    expect(changeHandlerSpy).toHaveBeenCalledWith("radioValue");
  });
});
```

> ##### Reusable Hooks Testing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Reusable Hooks testing
```

// TODO

> #### Integration Testing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Integration testing
```

We use integration testing to strike a balance between speed and expense to write our tests. We use

> them to test multiple reusable components that come together into less reusable App Widgets. We also try to use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
them to test multiple reusable components that come together into less reusable app widgets. We also try to use
```

minimal mocking, but can mock at the backend level if required.

> ##### App widget Testing

Reviewer: Capitalize Widget

> ##### App widget Testing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### App widget testing
```

This layer of tests is great for testing difficult to obtain states and edge cases as the test setup

> is simpler than e2e tests. We highly utilise react-testing-library to interface with these components.

Reviewer: *E2E

[source here](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/frontend/components/forms/ResetPasswordForm/ResetPasswordForm.tests.jsx)

```tsx
import React from "react";
import { render, screen } from "@testing-library/react";

import { renderWithSetup } from "test/testingUtils";

import ResetPasswordForm from "./ResetPasswordForm";

describe("ResetPasswordForm - component", () => {
  const newPassword = "password123!";
  const submitSpy = jest.fn();

  it("does not submit the form if the password is invalid", async () => {
    const invalidPassword = "invalid";
    const { user } = renderWithSetup(
      <ResetPasswordForm handleSubmit={submitSpy} />
    );

    await user.type(screen.getByLabelText("New password"), invalidPassword);
    await user.type(screen.getByLabelText("Confirm password"), invalidPassword);
    await user.click(screen.getByRole("button", { name: "Reset password" }));

    const passwordError = screen.getByText(
      "Password must meet the criteria below"
    );
    expect(passwordError).toBeInTheDocument();
    expect(submitSpy).not.toHaveBeenCalled();
  });
});
```

#### E2E testing

> Our e2e layer tests all the systems of the software (frontend and backend) together to

Reviewer: E2E

> ensure the application works as intended. To support this we do not often mock API responses at this

Reviewer: To support this, (comma)

Reviewer: *rarely

> layer of testing (with an exception for mocking network error responses). We want to test the

Reviewer: Remove parentheses and create a separate sentence so we can include the external APIs exception:

"Exceptions include mocking network error responses and mocking external APIs such as Jira or Zendesk integration responses."

> software as an actual user would at this level.

Reviewer: Consider putting "At this level," to lead the sentence.

```ts
describe("Labels flow", () => {
  before(() => {
    // ...setup
  });
  after(() => {
    // ...teardown
  });

  describe("Manage hosts page", () => {
    beforeEach(() => {
      // ...setup
    });
    it("creates a custom label", () => {
      cy.getAttached(".label-filter-select__control").click();
      cy.findByRole("button", { name: /add label/i }).click();
      cy.getAttached(".ace_content").type(
        "{selectall}{backspace}SELECT * FROM users;"
      );
      cy.findByLabelText(/name/i).click().type("Show all MAC users");
      cy.findByLabelText(/description/i)
        .click()
        .type("Select all MAC users.");
      cy.getAttached(".label-form__form-field--platform > .Select").click();
      cy.getAttached(".Select-menu-outer").within(() => {
        cy.findByText(/macOS/i).click();
      });
      cy.findByRole("button", { name: /save label/i }).click();
      cy.findByText(/label created/i).should("exist");
    });
  });
});
```

### Tooling

Here is a quick reference of the current tooling we are using at each layer of testing.

<img src="https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*iBBcTAf4zvn7yZq4K4MShA.png" width="400">

> #### Eslint and Typescript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### ESLint and TypeScript
```

> We use these for our static analyisis testing. The linting and typing rules have been setup so

Reviewer: *these tools

errors should appear in your editor if they are broken.

#### Jest

We use jest our our frontend test runner, assertion library, and spy and mock utilities for unit and
integration testing.

> #### Testing-Library

Reviewer: Testing Libraries

> #### Testing-Library

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Testing libraries
```

We rely heavily on the different libraries that are part of the testing-library ecosystem for out
unit and integration testing. These including react-testing-library, cypress-testing-library,
react-hooks, and user-events. The guiding principles of testing-libary align with our own in that we
believe tests should resemble real world usage as closely as possible.

#### Cypress

> We use cypress with cypress-testing-library as our e2e testing framework. We primarialy rely on full e2e software testing and do

Reviewer: *Cypress capitalize

> We use cypress with cypress-testing-library as our e2e testing framework. We primarialy rely on full e2e software testing and do

Reviewer: *Cypress Testing Library
*E2E

not often mock API responses, but we make an exception for mocking a failed network response when

> testing error states of the application.

Reviewer: Add:
and testing external APIs

Reviewer: Add:

For more details on our E2E testing, check out our [Cypress documentation](../cypress/README.md).

> ### More Specific Examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Additional examples
```

> #### Roles and Permissions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Roles and permissions
```

// TODO

> #### Mac and Windows Hosts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Mac and Windows hosts
```

// TODO

> #### Error States

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Error states
```

reusable hooks like `useDeepEffect`.

#### App widgets

App widgets are larger chunks of the application that are more specific (therefore not
reused) and are made up of the UI building blocks. They tend to have more context and dependencies
within them, which means they're tested differently than the building blocks. Examples include forms
like `LoginForm` and `ResetPasswordForm` or even simpler pages like `Registration Page` or `LoginPage`

#### User journeys

User journeys are the flows users take through the application to accomplish their goals. These are
typically the widest and can include navigating through multiple pages or working with multiple app
widgets on a page. This would include goals like **creating a new user or team** or **filtering
hosts by software vulnerabilities or policy results**.

---

## Testing plan

This section answers **how** we are testing our code by covering our testing tools and best practices. We
like to test the software at different layers (unit, integration, E2E), all of which have their
own usefulness and testing practices.

> NOTE: Architecture plays a huge role in testing practices and tools. In our current landscape

> (__as of 31/08/2022__), we do not have the best separation of concerns between our systems. As a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(__as of 08/31/2022__), we do not have the best separation of concerns between our systems. As a
```
American date format.

| User journeys | E2E with Cypress | End users | Filtering a host by software. Creating a team as admin. | Full business flows. Little to no mocking of systems, except for common network error states. |
| N/A | Manual | N/A | // TODO | Manual testing can be used for all types of code. Examples would be for one-offs or states that would require extremely difficult testing setups. |

#### Manual testing

There will always be a space for manual testing. We use it for testing states that do not
occur very often in the application or are not worth the effort to test for unlikely edge cases.

#### Static analysis

This includes typing and linting to quickly ensure proper typings of data flowing through the
application, and that we are following coding conventions and styling rules. This gives us a first
line of defense against writing buggy code.

#### Unit testing

We unit test smaller reusable components that have little to no dependencies within them. These
components are primarily parametric-based and require no or minimal mocking to be tested
effectively. They tend to be small building blocks of our application (e.g., reusable UI components,

> common utilities, reusable hooks.) With unit testing, the end users tend to be other developers, so

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
common utilities, reusable hooks). With unit testing, the end users tend to be other developers, so
```

describe("Radio - component", () => {
  it("renders the radio label text from the label prop", () => {
    render(
      <Radio
        checked
        label={"Radio Label"}
        value={"radioValue"}
        id={"test-radio"}
        onChange={noop}
      />
    );

    const labelText = screen.getByText("Radio Label");
    expect(labelText).toBeInTheDocument();
  });

  it("passes the radio input value when checked", async () => {
    const user = userEvent.setup();
    const changeHandlerSpy = jest.fn();

    render(
      <Radio
        label={"Radio Label"}
        value={"radioValue"}
        id={"test-radio"}
        onChange={changeHandlerSpy}
      />
    );

    const radio = screen.getByRole("radio", { name: "Radio Label" });
    await user.click(radio);

    expect(changeHandlerSpy).toHaveBeenCalled();
    expect(changeHandlerSpy).toHaveBeenCalledWith("radioValue");
  });
});
```

##### Reusable hooks testing

// TODO

#### Integration testing

We use integration testing to strike a balance between speed and expense to write our tests. We use
them to test multiple reusable components that come together into less reusable app widgets. We also

> try to use minimal mocking, but can mock at the backend level if required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
try to use minimal mocking, but we can mock at the backend level if required.
```

toolings used in testing.

For instructions on using our testings tools, check out our [testing docs](../Contributing/Testing-and-local-development.md).

**Table of contents**

- [Testing strategy](#testing-strategy)
  - [Testing philosophy](#testing-philosophy)
  - [Who tests](#who-tests)
  - [What we test](#what-we-test)
    - [Shared utilities](#shared-utilities)
    - [UI building blocks](#ui-building-blocks-resusable-components-and-hooks)
    - [App widgets](#app-widgets)
    - [User journeys](#user-journeys)
- [Testing plan](#testing-plan)
  - [Types of tests](#types-of-tests)
    - [Testing cheat sheet](#testing-cheat-sheet)
    - [Manual testing](#manual-testing)
    - [Static analysis](#static-analysis)
    - [Unit testing](#unit-testing)
      - [Shared utilities testing](#shared-utilities-testing)
      - [UI building block testing](#ui-building-block-testing)
      - [Reusable hook testing](#reusable-hooks-testing)
    - [Integration testing](#integration-testing)
      - [App widgets testing](#app-widget-testing)
    - [E2E testing](#e2e-testing)
  - [Tooling](#tooling)
    - [ESLint and TypeScript](#eslint-and-typescript)
    - [Jest](#jest)

>     - [Testing Library](#testing-library)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - [Testing library](#testing-library)
```
If this is referring to a testing library in general, then it is not a proper noun and should follow sentence case in this context. The Cypress Testing Library is a library with a particular name, which is why it is capitalized in this manner.

including:

- A focus on functionality and behavior over implementation details. This leads to better
  maintainability of the testing suite which does not have to change as the implementation changes.
- A clear idea of what type of tests are useful and should be prioritized.
- A higher level of confidence that the software behaves as intended in real-world scenarios.

### Who tests

The **developer** is responsible for writing and maintaining tests as part of their work. They can get
help from QA when trying to decide what tests are sufficient for the feature.

### What we test

We break down our application into different types of systems that we can test in ways that best fit
their use cases.

#### Shared utilities

Shared utilities are generally simple JS functions used throughout the app. This includes code in the
`utilities` directory such as `utilites/url` and `utilities/string`.

#### UI building blocks (reusable components and hooks)

UI building blocks is reusable code that's primarily driven by props or arguments. This
includes components in the `components` directory like `Radio`, `FlashMessage`, and `Button` or
reusable hooks like `useDeepEffect`.

> 

Reviewer 2: Is this extra return intentional? If not, please remove it.

- A higher level of confidence that the software behaves as intended in real world scenarios.

### Who tests

The **developer** is responsible for writing and maintaining tests as part of their work. They can get
help from QA when trying to decide what tests are sufficient for the feature.

### What we test

We break down our application into different types of systems that we can test in ways that best fit
their use cases.

#### Shared utilities

Shared utilities are generally simple JS functions used throught the app. This includes code in the
`utilities` directory such as `utilites/url` and `utilities/string`.

#### UI building blocks (reusable components and hooks)

UI building blocks is code that is reusable and primarily props or argument driven. This includes
components in the `components` directory like `Radio`, `FlashMessage`, and `Button` or reusable
hooks like `useDeepEffect`.

#### App widgets

App widgets are larger chunks of the application that are more specific (therefore not
reused) and are made up of the UI building blocks. They tend to have more context and dependencies
within them and therefore are tested differently than the

> building blocks. Examples include forms like `LoginForm` and `ResetPasswordForm` or even some

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
building blocks. Examples include forms like `LoginForm` and `ResetPasswordForm` or even
```

> simpler pages including `Registration Page` or `LoginPage`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
simpler pages like `Registration Page` or `LoginPage`
```

#### User journeys

User journeys are the flows users take through the application to accomplish their goals. These are
typically the widest and can include navigating through multiple pages or working with multiple app

> widgets on a page. This would include things like **creating a new user or team** or **filtering

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
widgets on a page. This would include goals like **creating a new user or team** or **filtering
```

like to test the software at different layers (unit, integration, E2E), all of which have their
own usefulness and testing practices.

> NOTE: Architecture plays a huge role in testing practices and tools. In our current landscape
(__as of 31/08/2022__), we do not have the best separation of concerns between our systems. As a
result, the most reliable way to test our software is as a whole with E2E tests. While this is ok
at some level, we are still missing a large chunk of important testing that would be better written
and maintained at the integration/unit level. We'd like to utilize separation of concerns more
between our systems as this will allow us to test more in the integration and unit layers, which are
quicker to run and generally easier to work with.

### Types of tests

We use a variety of testing to ensure that our software is working as intended. This includes:

- End-to-end (E2E)
- Integration
- Unit
- Static
- Manual

#### Testing cheat sheet

| Systems | Type of Test | Who is the User | Example | Notes |
| ------- | ------------ | --------------- | ------- | ----- |

> | Reusable utilities | unit w/Jest | devs | string util, url util | no/few dependencies. function argument based |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Reusable utilities | Unit with Jest | Devs | String util, url util | Little to no dependencies. Function argument-based. |
```

> | Reusable hooks | unit w/Jest & react-hooks lib | devs | useToggleDisplayed Hook | no/few dependencies. function argument based |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Reusable hooks | Unit with Jest and react-hooks library | Devs | useToggleDisplayed Hook | Little to no dependencies. Function argument-based. |
```

> | Reusable UI components | unit w/Jest & testing-library | devs | Radio, Button, Input components | no/few dependencies. props based |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Reusable UI components | Unit with Jest and testing-library | Devs | Radio, button, and input components | Little to no dependencies. Props-based. |
```

> | App Widgets | Integration or E2E w/testing-library or Cypress | end users | Create User form, Reset Password form | Less reusable code with more complex environment setup and dependencies. Depending on the case can be done with integration or E2E. When integration, mock at the backend level, don't mock other UI systems. When E2E, no mocking of other systems except for common network error states. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| App widgets | Integration or E2E with testing-library or Cypress | End users | Create user form. Reset password form. | Less reusable code with more complex environment setup and dependencies. Depending on the case, can be done with integration or E2E. For integration, mock at the backend level; don't mock other UI systems. For E2E, don't mock other systems except for common network error states. |
```

> | User Journeys | E2E w/Cypress | end users | filtering a host by software, creating a team as admin | Full business flows. No/minimal mocking of systems, except for common error states from network. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| User journeys | E2E with Cypress | End users | Filtering a host by software. Creating a team as admin. | Full business flows. Little to no mocking of systems, except for common error states from network. |
```

| N/A | Manual | N/A | // TODO | Manual testing can be used for all types of code. Examples would be for one-offs or states that would require extremely difficult testing setups. |

#### Manual testing

> There will always be a space for manual testing. We utilize it for testing states that do not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There will always be a space for manual testing. We use it for testing states that do not
```

> occur very often in the application or are not worth the effort to test for unlikely edge case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
occur very often in the application or are not worth the effort to test for unlikely edge cases.
```

#### Static analysis

This includes typing and linting to quickly ensure proper typings of data flowing through the

> application and that we are following coding conventions and styling rules. This give us a first

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
application, and that we are following coding conventions and styling rules. This gives us a first
```

line of defense against writing buggy code.

#### Unit testing

We unit test smaller reusable components that have little to no dependencies within them. These

> components are primarily parametric based and require no or minimal mocking to be tested

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
components are primarily parametric-based and require no or minimal mocking to be tested
```

effectively. They tend to be small building blocks of our application (e.g., reusable UI components,

> common utilities, reusable hooks.) With unit testing, the end user tends to be other developers so

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
common utilities, reusable hooks.) With unit testing, the end users tends to be other developers, so
```

we ensure these components work as expected when used as building blocks.

##### Shared utilities testing

We can test utility functions purely with Jest and don't have to worry about rendering components with

> React Testing Library. Only Jest is needed with minimal mocking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
react-testing-library. Only Jest is needed with minimal mocking.
```
You seemed to use this spelling more later in the doc.

> [View the full url utility testing source.](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/frontend/utilities/url/url.tests.ts)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[View the full url utility testing source](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/frontend/utilities/url/url.tests.ts).
```

```tsx
import { buildQueryStringFromParams } from ".";

describe("url utilities", () => {
  it("creates a query string from a params object", () => {
    const params = {
      query: "test",
      page: 1,
      order: "asc",
      isNew: true,
    };
    expect(buildQueryStringFromParams(params)).toBe(
      "query=test&page=1&order=asc&isNew=true"
    );
  });

  it("filters out undefined values", () => {
    const params = {
      query: undefined,
      page: 1,
      order: "asc",
    };
    expect(buildQueryStringFromParams(params)).toBe("page=1&order=asc");
  });
});
```
##### UI building block testing

We test the component to ensure it works how a developer would want to use it. There is minimal
mocking and we utilize react-testing-library and Jest spies to test.

> [View the full Radio component testing source.](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/frontend/components/forms/fields/Radio/Radio.tests.tsx)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[View the full Radio component testing source](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/frontend/components/forms/fields/Radio/Radio.tests.tsx).
```

    expect(labelText).toBeInTheDocument();
  });

  it("passes the radio input value when checked", async () => {
    const user = userEvent.setup();
    const changeHandlerSpy = jest.fn();

    render(
      <Radio
        label={"Radio Label"}
        value={"radioValue"}
        id={"test-radio"}
        onChange={changeHandlerSpy}
      />
    );

    const radio = screen.getByRole("radio", { name: "Radio Label" });
    await user.click(radio);

    expect(changeHandlerSpy).toHaveBeenCalled();
    expect(changeHandlerSpy).toHaveBeenCalledWith("radioValue");
  });
});
```

##### Reusable hooks testing

// TODO

#### Integration testing

We use integration testing to strike a balance between speed and expense to write our tests. We use
them to test multiple reusable components that come together into less reusable app widgets. We also try to use
minimal mocking, but can mock at the backend level if required.

##### App widget testing

This layer of tests is great for testing difficult to obtain states and edge cases as the test setup
is simpler than E2E tests. We highly utilize react-testing-library to interface with these components.

> [View the full ResetPasswordForm app widget testing source.](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/frontend/components/forms/ResetPasswordForm/ResetPasswordForm.tests.jsx)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[View the full ResetPasswordForm app widget testing source](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/frontend/components/forms/ResetPasswordForm/ResetPasswordForm.tests.jsx).
```

```tsx
import React from "react";
import { render, screen } from "@testing-library/react";

import { renderWithSetup } from "test/testingUtils";

import ResetPasswordForm from "./ResetPasswordForm";

describe("ResetPasswordForm - component", () => {
  const newPassword = "password123!";
  const submitSpy = jest.fn();

  it("does not submit the form if the password is invalid", async () => {
    const invalidPassword = "invalid";
    const { user } = renderWithSetup(
      <ResetPasswordForm handleSubmit={submitSpy} />
    );

    await user.type(screen.getByLabelText("New password"), invalidPassword);
    await user.type(screen.getByLabelText("Confirm password"), invalidPassword);
    await user.click(screen.getByRole("button", { name: "Reset password" }));

    const passwordError = screen.getByText(
      "Password must meet the criteria below"
    );
    expect(passwordError).toBeInTheDocument();
    expect(submitSpy).not.toHaveBeenCalled();
  });
});
```

#### E2E testing

Our E2E layer tests all the systems of the software (frontend and backend) together to
ensure the application works as intended. To support this, we rarely mock API responses at this

> layer of testing. Exceptions include mocking network error responses and mocking external APIs such

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
layer of testing. Exceptions include mocking network error responses and mocking external APIs, such
```

> as Jira or Zendesk integration responses. At this level we want to test the software as an actual user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as Jira or Zendesk integration responses. At this level, we want to test the software as an actual user.
```

> [View the full labels flow user journey testing source.](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/cypress/integration/all/app/labelflow.spec.ts)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[View the full labels flow user journey testing source](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/cypress/integration/all/app/labelflow.spec.ts).
```

```ts
describe("Labels flow", () => {
  before(() => {
    // ...setup
  });
  after(() => {
    // ...teardown
  });

  describe("Manage hosts page", () => {
    beforeEach(() => {
      // ...setup
    });
    it("creates a custom label", () => {
      cy.getAttached(".label-filter-select__control").click();
      cy.findByRole("button", { name: /add label/i }).click();
      cy.getAttached(".ace_content").type(
        "{selectall}{backspace}SELECT * FROM users;"
      );
      cy.findByLabelText(/name/i).click().type("Show all MAC users");
      cy.findByLabelText(/description/i)
        .click()
        .type("Select all MAC users.");
      cy.getAttached(".label-form__form-field--platform > .Select").click();
      cy.getAttached(".Select-menu-outer").within(() => {
        cy.findByText(/macOS/i).click();
      });
      cy.findByRole("button", { name: /save label/i }).click();
      cy.findByText(/label created/i).should("exist");
    });
  });
});
```

### Tooling

Here is a quick reference of the current tooling we are using at each layer of testing.

<img src="https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*iBBcTAf4zvn7yZq4K4MShA.png" width="400">

#### ESLint and TypeScript

> We use these for our static analysis testing. These tools have been setup so

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use these for our static analysis testing. These tools have been set up so
```

errors should appear in your editor if they are broken.

#### Jest

We use Jest as our frontend test runner, assertion library, and spy and mock utilities for unit and
integration testing.

> #### Testing-Library

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Testing-library
```

We rely heavily on the different libraries that are part of the testing-library ecosystem for our
unit and integration testing. These including react-testing-library, cypress-testing-library,
react-hooks, and user-events. The guiding principles of the testing-library tools align with our own

> in that we believe tests should resemble real world usage as closely as possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in that we believe tests should resemble real-world usage as closely as possible.
```
